Dear Kim Bussey

A group of men set explosives on the Macdonald Bridge under the cover of darkness with military precision...

Bruce Dunsmore, Halifax's top cop, struggles to balance the demands of the job, municipal politicking, his ex-wife and their troubled daughter, Lara. Now, his ex-girlfriend is in town and more than one storm is brewing.

RCMP Special Investigator Millie Gagnon hates presentations but a favour to Admiral has her at Maritime Command, bringing the MARLANT brass up to speed on the latest in terrorism's behavioral analysis. She makes plans to have coffee later with an old flame.

...and then everything changed.

THE CRUCIBLE GAME is a thriller complete at 12,000 words.

I have contributed stories and poetry to author-published anthology, MIDNIGHT ABYSS: A COLLECTION OF DARKLINGS, in 2013. My short story, Artemis' Nightrise features also in the DARK FUTURES ANNUAL 1 collection in 2014. My current projects include a zombie apocolypic adventure series and a sci-fi horror/fantasy trilogy. A collection of my shorter pieces, DARK STORIES & TALES OF WHIMSY, is available on Wattpad.

Thank you for your time and consideration.

Doug Langille
me@douglangille.ca
902-555-5555


Dear Ms. Bussey,

Detective Bruce Dunmore always jogged the bridge in the mornings, at least since he and Kathy split two years ago. Something about breathing the salty air, even in the dead of winter, made him feel powerful. It was one of the few moments when he was free to think.

Special Investigator Millie Gagnon rubbed the palms of her hands on her slacks to dry them. An expert in tactical behavioural analysis, she still felt inadequate presenting, especially in front of a crowd of military brass, all of whom ranked higher than she did.

Politics, family and impending foul weather, it s just another day in the port city. But, Halifax is unknowingly on the brink of some bad times. A group of men set explosives on the Macdonald Bridge under the cover of darkness with military precision... and changed everything.

The stage is set. Yes, Halifax is in for a rough ride indeed.

THE CRUCIBLE GAME is a thriller complete at 20,000 words.

I have contributed stories and poetry two author-published anthologies: MIDNIGHT ABYSS and DARK FUTURES ANNUAL 1. My short fiction has also been published in READER'S CARNIVAL and LONG STORY SHORT. A collection of my shorter pieces is available on Wattpad. My current projects include a zombie apocolypic adventure series and a sci-fi horror/fantasy trilogy. 

Thank you for your time and consideration.

Doug Langille
me@douglangille.ca
902-555-5555