Alice gave me a furtive glance as she handed me a glass of lemonade. She was nervous. I could sense a slight tremble in her voice as she offered a drink to Darcy. He was oblivious as usual.

“A drink, honey? How’s the wall coming along?” she asked.

My best friend took the sweet glass and downed it in one shot. It was indeed hot work. He wiped the sweat from his brow with the sleeve of his shirt then answered our favourite redhead. “We’re almost done. Just a few more bricks to lay.”

Darcy took pride in his projects. Whether at work or at home, he threw himself in. Nothing was left to chance. Every detail accounted. The basement renovation was no exception. The dry storage partition was the last to complete. He was particular about his choice of cinder-block.

“Just one more bucket of mortar to mix. Bobby, I’ll do that while you sweep out the room one last time. Alice, sweetheart, can you give him a hand? Thanks.”

We’d been friends since we were in junior high. We rode bikes together. We played hockey together. The one thing we never did was compete for girls. It was never really a problem anyway. I was the outgoing one of the pair. I always had luck. I just could never keep a relationship for very long. Darcy was a strikeout king. That made him the perfect wingman. After college, we all grew up. I married and divorced while Darcy struggled. Part of me always thought he was jealous of me. If he only knew.

I held out my hand to help Alice over the bottom blocks into the small space. Her touch was electric. It was all I could do to not kiss her and hold her close. To hell with the consequences. She held the flash-light while I swept the room. We worked in tense silence as we waited for Darcy to return, each alone with our thoughts.

I was genuinely happy when he found Alice. She was beautiful and smart. My friend could finally be happy. But, nothing lasts forever. Darcy worked too hard. Alice was left alone too much. It was too easy to love her. Two years of forbidden passion. It’s crazy, but with her, I’d found my own peace.

Neither of us expected to be faced with the barrel of a shotgun.

Darcy didn’t mince words. “You’re supposed to be my friend, Bobby. Alice is supposed to be my wife.”

I was at a loss of what to say. I was ashamed for all three of us. My stomach sank and my head swam.

“Darcy, please. Don’t do this”, said Alice with tears streaking her dusty cheeks.

“I love you.” That was all he said to her. I don’t think he had words for anything more. He spoke directly to me next. His voice was level and monotone, a forced steely detachment. “You win. You always do. She’s yours now. Forever. Fill it in, Bobby.”

I stared at the end of the double barrels for a brief moment and then met Darcy’s gaze. All I saw was doom. I felt Alice’s presence at my side. “No, Darcy. No.” She pleaded to deaf ears.

Quick-drying cement has a unique odour. Time raced faster than I could fathom as I set the blocks in the mortar. It wasn’t long before the only sound that could be heard was our own panicked breathing. The job was finished. Alice and I held hands as the batteries of her flash-light winked out. The darkness swallowed us.

\*\*\*

I let the curtain slide closed as I watched Darcy’s car turn the corner. He’d be at the hardware store a good while, picking out just the right kind of material to finish the damnable wall downstairs. I begrudgingly agreed to help him with yet another project. He practically begged me. It was unnecessary, of course. I’d do anything to spend time at his house, even if it meant working in stifling heat through the dead of night.

I figured him to be gone at least an hour. Good. I turned to look at Alice and smiled.

She was leaning against the doorframe separating the living room from the hallway. The sun was low enough in the sky to cast her in silhouette, the shape of her body visible through the thin shift she wore. My God, she was beautiful. Even after all this time, I still became giddy and light-headed whenever I was near her. The air was close, despite every window being open. There was no breeze to spirit away the veil of sweat that made her glisten. She smelled slightly of vanilla. I would always be lost to her spell.

Alice smiled back at me as she clicked and clacked away on her phone. I had talked her into signing up for Twitter a couple of weeks ago. Darcy didn’t know. It was one of those things that only she and I shared.

“I love you, Alice,” I said as I continued to study her, absorbing her presence.

She set the phone on the coffee table and slowly walked over. She traced the back of her fingers along the side of my face to the tip of my chin. My heart skipped as she rose on her toes and whispered. “I love you, too.” Her lips were soft and warm, familiar and enticing.

There was a buzz and musical bleep from across the room. “I thought you saved all your tweets for me,” I teased.

“I was being stalked by cats on the internet. I just had to stalk them back,” she said as she moved to check her new vice. I watched her bemusedly. Clickety-clack and clackity-click. Alice blanched and froze. “Bobby,” she gasped softly.

She handed the phone to me. It was probably a tweet from some random spambot feline. There was no text, just a link to a picture. It was a photo of Alice and I caught in an embrace, in this very house. We were getting careless.

“What if it’s Darcy? Do you think he knows?” Alice asked, her eyes dancing with worry.

I did my best to reassure her and shook my head. “He can barely operate the television remote, sweetheart. This is someone else.”

“Who? The mailman?” Her sharp tone affected me. It wounded me.

“Maybe it’s your sister, her way of telling us to be a little more discrete.” It was as plausible a reason as any. That was Jane’s MO. It drove Alice nuts. That it could be Darcy was unthinkably awful. It made my stomach sick with guilt. The man was my best friend, but my soul was bound to hers.

“I don’t want us to be a secret anymore, Bobby. I don’t think I can do this anymore.”

I didn’t want to answer her. We both felt that things were reaching a head. Something had to end soon. It was too much to bear. I couldn’t share her anymore. It was as simple and as complex as that.

I deleted the tweet and dropped the phone back on the table. Then I gathered Alice up in my arms and held her close. I kissed the top of her head and then her neck. She sighed a lustful purr as she gave herself to me. We rocked gently together in silence for untold stolen moments.

Our reverie was interrupted when we saw blades of reflected light pass over the room as Darcy pulled up. The sun hid behind clouds as the waning light took on a deep orange pallor. It would be dark soon.

Alice pressed her hands against my chest. She was shaking. “He’s back,” she said. Those two words were full of sadness and longing. I knew them well.

“Damn it all to hell.” I gave her one last kiss, deep and long. Time was always too short. I wouldn’t let her go. I couldn’t.

She broke our embrace and tried to steady her voice. “Go help him bring the stuff in. It’s hot. I’ll make some lemonade.”

Alice headed to the kitchen. I watched her disappear around the corner. She was at that moment an apparition, a mirage of the heart. There were too many things between us. We were acting like teenagers. It wasn’t fair to Darcy, but damn him. Alice was no more his than she was mine. Alice belonged to Alice. I think what hurt the most was that she still loved him. She wouldn’t give him up. I wouldn’t give up on him either. Darcy’s my friend, my best friend, and he deserved a better one in me. \
\
I was suddenly angry at him. I wanted to walk out the door to his car, grab him by the throat and tear it apart. The picture of his ruined, lifeless face stood vividly in my mind, as did the sanguine elation of satisfaction that would come with the effort. Then I pivoted my mind’s eye and saw Alice’s broken heart. The fury was gone. All that remained was the crippling guilt. I went outside to help Darcy carry the materials from the car.\
\
"Hey, Bobby." Darcy’s face was a sea of sweat even though there was only a sliver of daylight left. It was even muggier outside than in the house. There still was not even a hint of breeze. \
\
The tall poplars out front were heavy with hundreds of starlings, chattering and chortling in a noisesome flourish. It was as if they were deliberating and judging the devices of human frailty. There was no shortage of it to consider. A large blackbird, probably a crow or raven, landed on the light standard opposite the feathered assembly. With one bleating caw, the convention disbanded and scattered skyward, meeting adjourned. The lone bird remained, presiding over his domain.\
\
I nodded and gave a weak smile to my friend, as I grabbed an armload of cinderblocks. “Alice is inside. It’s a little cooler. She said something about fresh lemonade for later." \
\
Darcy grabbed the pail of quick-dry mortar and the new trowel. We went inside and then down to the basement. I setup the fans while he strung the lights. I was suddenly possessed with urgency to get this job done. Alice left us to our work. It was too hard for her with both of us so close. We heard music coming from upstairs. Billie Holiday’s haunting melodies floated and filled the air. It made the dust dance in the beams of lamplight. The music was charged and beautiful. It kept Darcy and I lost in our thoughts as we worked away. We were building a wall, maybe more than one.\
\
I was thinking about the first time I saw Alice. It was about five years ago. Darcy was excited for me to meet her. I was so glad he finally met someone. I was between relationships at the time and feeling sorry for myself, so it was to my selfish delight that Alice’s sister Jane joined us. In a twisted turn of fortune, my wingman managed to setup a double-date, and a blind one at that. I remember staring at him with awe and suspicion as we pulled in to pick up the sisters. He was grinning widely, thoroughly pleased with himself.\
\
"Bobby, this is Jane," beamed Darcy as he introduced me to my date. Jane was indeed a vision, dark-hair and a pretty green dress. Then I saw Alice. She was every bit the woman as Jane in a deep-blue print with short-cropped copper hair. The girls together were captivating. I was staring like a fool. Darcy brought me out of my stupor as he pecked Alice on the cheek. “Hello, sweetheart," he said. A spark of jealousy licked my heart before I turned my attention to Jane.\
\
"Pleased to meet you, Jane," I said while I palmed her hand and made a gallant show as I bowed and kissed it. It was Darcy’s time to shine. It was my turn to play wing. The evening went exceedingly well. It was that way for almost a year. Darcy and Alice, me and Jane. Now Jane was all in, but I was only going through the motions. I just didn’t love her. There was a part of me that resented Jane and Darcy. I couldn’t recognize it at the time, but it was always about Alice. Jane knew this too. We always talked around it with unspoken accusations. It didn’t end well for us. Things were never the same between the girls. I never told Darcy the rotten truth of it all. Jane blamed Alice for my failings. She hated her for it.\
\
Oh God. Jane. What have you done?

\*\*\*

I used to be afraid of the dark when I was a kid. I would sleep with a night light. Even as I got older, I always kept a flash-light in the night stand. I would be comforted by the glow of the alarm clock, breaking the night with its bright red digits. These days it was my phone that served the purpose. It kept silent vigil over me as I slept. The curtain of night could be lifted with ease.  

I had no such guardian now. This was the pure dark of my fears. As the realization of our predicament washed over me, I felt the familiar rise of panic. I was that helpless eight-year-old all over again. The air was thickly hot with dust and sweat.  The room was designed to be airtight. We wouldn’t last long.

Alice’s fingers laced mine, not tightly, but not nearly ready to be freed either. She was scared too. “We’re going to die in here, Bobby,” she said quietly. It was neither question nor plea, just a bare observation. 

I didn’t dispute her. “Yeah,” I said. What else was there to say that wasn’t a lie? I reached to touch her face with my free hand. I didn’t need to see to light the image. I knew every inch of her by memory. The curve of her nose, the fine hair of her neck’s nape, the softness of her mouth and the swell of her breasts. She shivered as I brushed her lips with my fingertips. 

Then she let me go and backed away. I couldn’t tell where she was. Even when she spoke, it was impossible to orient her in the room. “I called Jane.”

“When?” I asked. Oh god.

“About an hour ago, while you two were down here. We argued.”

“The music. We didn’t hear you.”

“That was the point. Bobby, she sent the tweet. She’s here, in the house, somewhere. ”

“Jane’s a part of this with Darcy, isn’t she?”

“Oh, Bobby, she’s still so angry. She went on and on about how I stole you from her. About how much prettier I was than her. That I always got the good ones and she was left alone. She said I was greedy and selfish, that I wanted both of you for myself.” Alice stopped. I reached for her in the murky dark, my arms swinging slowly, finding no purchase. I felt like I was going to fall. My hands scrapped the fresh cinder-block.

“Alice.” Nothing. I could hear her breathing in the hitching way that comes with silent tears. “Alice?”

“Why did you choose me over Jane?” Her voice was low and even.

“I can’t explain it. It was always you. When I kissed Jane, it was you I kissed. When we made love, it was you. It was always supposed to be you. When Jane left me after that big fight, I felt free. But I needed to leave and escape. Darcy was so happy and smitten with you. I knew I wasn’t strong enough.”

“Why didn’t you, Bobby? Why didn’t you just leave me and Darcy be?”

“I don’t know. He took you for granted, Alice. He wasn’t right for you. Maybe I just wanted to blame it on him, but it’s not really it, is it? The truth is, I was in love with you, my best-friend’s wife. I’d have done anything to be with you.”

I could sense Alice in front of me. She said, “Jane’s crazed now. She’s never let you go and never forgiven me.”

“This is so screwed up. Why? Why this?” I found her hand and brought it to my face. Were Jane and Darcy any crazier than us? What made this okay?

“I think she aimed to punish us. Said she told Darcy. We had to pay. I didn’t see this coming. I love Darcy, but I don’t really know him at all. Not like you.” Alice drew away again, not as far. She was nearby.

I wondered how long Darcy really knew about us. This took a lot of planning. Did Jane just confirm what he was denying? The mist was gone. All that remained were four flawed souls and their pack of lies. I was getting light-headed. The air wasn’t fresh from the start. It was foul. I could taste guilt and death. I could see the loneliness in the darklight. I was losing myself to it. I caught myself falling and sat on the cool concrete floor.

Then she was beside me, always beside me. Alice and I held each other tight. We faced the forever black together. This was our tomb. We deserved each other. 

The nausea passed, but the lack of oxygen was making me sleepy. Alice passed out. I felt her chest move slightly as her breathing grew shallower. I couldn’t tell if my own eyes were open or closed. All I saw was gray. It probably didn’t matter anyway. My legs felt like weights under water. My arms stopped tingling a while ago. I waited for death to make its claim.

Scraping and banging, a shaft of light then a rush of cool fresh air. My brain was sluggish. I didn’t understand what was happening as Darcy helped me out of the room. I couldn’t stand, let alone walk. “Alice,” I said.

“Jane’s got her,” he said. I turned and saw Jane struggle to lift her sister. Darcy went over and picked her up easily. Alice’s arms wrapped around Darcy’s neck. She was alive, but barely. He carried her upstairs. I managed to get to my feet and followed them on shaky legs. No one spoke.

They gave us water. They waited. We waited in silence. Alice was starting to come around. “Darcy, I’m sorry,” she started, weak and gravelly.

“Don’t,” cut off Darcy. His voice was quiet and firm, his eyes a dull flame quelling an endless rage. The emotions of the room were a tempest of shame, sadness, bitterness and anger. The potential for fury filled the air. We were at the precipice facing the void, facing the black. A single word. That would be all it would take to topple this truce. Time froze as we regarded each other, unsure of what was to happen next.

Jane broke the moment, ending the impasse. “Darcy, let’s go.” He nodded and took one last long look at me, then Alice. He kissed her. Then my one-time best friend followed my lover’s sister through the front door and out of our lives.

I was uncertain how much strength and love Alice and I had to pick up the pieces. All I knew was that we were damned, perhaps from the very beginning.
